<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [reset][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
-   [set][3]
    -   [Parameters][4]
-   [delete][5]
    -   [Parameters][6]
-   [getState][7]
-   [useStore][8]
    -   [Parameters][9]
    -   [Examples][10]
-   [useSetStoreValue][11]
    -   [Parameters][12]
    -   [Examples][13]
-   [useDeleteStoreValue][14]
    -   [Parameters][15]
    -   [Examples][16]
-   [useGetAndSet][17]
    -   [Parameters][18]
    -   [Examples][19]
-   [useGetAndDelete][20]
    -   [Parameters][21]
    -   [Examples][22]
-   [useSetAndDelete][23]
    -   [Parameters][24]
    -   [Examples][25]
-   [useStoreValue][26]
    -   [Parameters][27]
-   [useStoreState][28]
    -   [Examples][29]
-   [rawStore][30]
-   [withStore][31]
    -   [Parameters][32]
    -   [Examples][33]

## reset

Resets the state to the given input.

### Parameters

-   `state` **[Object][34]** the new value to reset the state to.

## set

Sets the specified key in the store. This function is equivaluent to the `useSetStoreValue` hook.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** the property to set in the store
-   `value` **[Object][34]** the value of the property

## delete

delete the specified key from the store. This function is equivaluent to the `useDeleteStoreValue` hook.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** the property to set in the store

## getState

Returns **any** the global state value of the store

## useStore

`useStore` is a React Hook that access a value stored in the application global store. It returns the value, a function to update it (like React.useState) and a function to delete it.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** The lookup key to find the saved value in the store
-   `defaultValue` **any** The value if the value in the store is missing

### Examples

```javascript
import {useStore} from 'react-context-hook'
const [username, setUsername, deleteUsername] = useStore('username')
<div>hello {username}</div>
<button onClick={()=> setUsername('my_username')}>set username</button>
```

Returns **[array][36]** an array with length 3:<br>
position 0 - the value of the data in the store.<br>
position 1 - a function _setValue_ to modify the data in the store. When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `setValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`<br>
position 2 - a function _deleteValue_ to delete the value from the store. When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `deleteValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`

## useSetStoreValue

Returns a function to set or update a variable in the store. You want to use this hook when you just need to modify the store, not read or delete a value from it.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** the name of the variable to set in the store

### Examples

```javascript
import {useSetStoreValue} from 'react-context-hook'
const setUsername = useSetStoreValue('username')
<button onClick={()=> setUsername('my_username')}>set username</button>
```

Returns **[Function][37]** a function to set a variable in the store with the given name When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `setValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`

## useDeleteStoreValue

Returns a function to delete a variable in the store. You want to use this hook when you just need to delete a value in the store, not read or set a value from it.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** the name of the variable to set in the store

### Examples

```javascript
import {useDeleteStoreValue} from 'react-context-hook'
const deleteUsername = useDeleteStoreValue('username')
<button onClick={()=> deleteUsername('my_username')}>set username</button>
```

Returns **[Function][37]** a function to delete a variable in the store with the given name. When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `deleteValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`

## useGetAndSet

This React hook returns an array to read and modify a value in the store:
`const [value, setValue] = useGetAndSet('a_lookup_key_in_the_store')`. The name of the variable in the arry is arbitrary and you can choose any string you like.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** The lookup key to find the saved value in the store
-   `defaultValue` **any** The default value if missing

### Examples

```javascript
import {useGetAndSet} from 'react-context-hook'
const [username, setUsername] = useGetAndSet('username')
<div>hello {username}</div>
<button onClick={()=> setUsername('my_username')}>set username</button>

 const [value, setValue] = useGetAndSet('a_lookup_key_in_the_store')
```

Returns **[array][36]** an array with length 2:<br>
position 0 - the value of the data in the store.<br>
position 1 - a function _setValue_ to modify the data in the store. When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `setValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`<br>

## useGetAndDelete

This React hook returns an array to read and delete a value in the store:
`const [value, deleteValue] = useGetAndDelete('a_lookup_key_in_the_store')`. The name of the variable in the arry is arbitrary and you can choose any string you like.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** The lookup key to find the saved value in the store

### Examples

```javascript
import {useGetAndDelete} from 'react-context-hook'
const [username, deleteUsername] = useGetAndDelete('username')
<div>hello {username}</div>
<button onClick={()=> deleteUsername('my_username')}>set username</button>
```

Returns **[array][36]** an array with length 2:<br>
position 0 - the value of the data in the store.<br>
position 1 - a function _deleteValue_ to delete the data in the store. When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `deleteValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`<br>

## useSetAndDelete

This React hook returns an array to set and delete a value in the store:
`const [setValue, deleteValue] = useGetAndDelete('a_lookup_key_in_the_store')`. The name of the variable in the arry is arbitrary and you can choose any string you like.

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** The lookup key to find the saved value in the store

### Examples

```javascript
import {useGetAndDelete} from 'react-context-hook'
const [username, deleteUsername] = useGetAndDelete('username')
<div>hello {username}</div>
<button onClick={()=> deleteUsername('my_username')}>set username</button>
```

Returns **[array][36]** an array with length 2:<br>
position 0 - a function _setValue_ to modify the data in the store. When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `setValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`<br>
position 1 - a function _deleteValue_ to delete the data in the store. When used, this function return a promise that resolve nothing, thus you can use `deleteValue('a value').then(() => {doSomething() //when the store did update})`<br>

## useStoreValue

### Parameters

-   `key` **[string][35]** the name of the variable / value to be retrieved in the global store.
-   `defaultValue` **any?** an optional default value, if the value in the global store is not present.

Returns **any** the value on the global store, or the default value if passed, or `undefined`

## useStoreState

Returns the whole store value, with all the variables stored in it. Changes to this object will not change the store

### Examples

```javascript
import {useStoreState} from 'react-context-hook'
const store = useStoreState()
console.log('the store is', JSON.stringify(store))
```

Returns **[object][34]** An object representing the whole store value in read only mode.

## rawStore

This store can be used outside of React components.

## withStore

### Parameters

-   `WrappedComponent` **ReactElement** the component to connect with the store
-   `initialValue` **[Object][34]** an Object that will be the initial store value, or nothing
-   `config` **[Object][34]** the custom configuration. If nothing is passed, the default config will be used.
    -   `config.listener` **[Function][37]** a function that is triggered each time the global state is modified. This function takes these parameters: (state, key, prevValue, nextValue). `state` is the value of the new state, `key` is the key that changed, `prevValue` is the old value of the key, `nextValule` is the new one.
    -   `config.logging` **[boolean][38]** default `false` - if true it will log changes to console

### Examples

```javascript
const initialState = { count: 10 }

const storeConfig = {
 listener: (state, key, prevValue, nextValue) => {
console.log(`the key "${key}" changed in the store`)
console.log('the old value is', prevValue)
console.log('the current value is', nextValue)
console.log('the state is', state)
},
 logging: process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production'
}

export default withStore(App, initialState, storeConfig)
```

[1]: #reset

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #set

[4]: #parameters-1

[5]: #delete

[6]: #parameters-2

[7]: #getstate

[8]: #usestore

[9]: #parameters-3

[10]: #examples

[11]: #usesetstorevalue

[12]: #parameters-4

[13]: #examples-1

[14]: #usedeletestorevalue

[15]: #parameters-5

[16]: #examples-2

[17]: #usegetandset

[18]: #parameters-6

[19]: #examples-3

[20]: #usegetanddelete

[21]: #parameters-7

[22]: #examples-4

[23]: #usesetanddelete

[24]: #parameters-8

[25]: #examples-5

[26]: #usestorevalue

[27]: #parameters-9

[28]: #usestorestate

[29]: #examples-6

[30]: #rawstore

[31]: #withstore

[32]: #parameters-10

[33]: #examples-7

[34]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[35]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[36]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[37]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[38]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean
